---
title: "My proudest achievement"
date: "02-07-2025_15-42-59"
preview: "A short essay about graduating college"
---

The proudest moment of my life thus far was graduating from college. I have
ADHD, and from a young age, some topics have been harder for me to wrap my head
around. I never let that stop me from aspiring to go to university to study
computer science. When I was young, I would often discuss attending Caltech or
Cal Poly to study computer science. I was so determined that nothing could have
changed my mind.

When I was a little older, my parents let me know that my sister had dropped out
of college with no plans on returning. Neither of my parents nor extended family
(aside from my aunt on my mother's side) has ever completed a college degree. I
was now in the running to be the first person in my immediate branch of the
family with a degree.

I ended up going to the Colorado School of Mines after applying on the
recommendation of my aunt, the one with a degree. I didn't have high hopes for
the "mining school in Colorado," but I could not have been more wrong. This
school challenged me in all facets of my life. I was away from home, with no
friends, and no real idea of how challenging this school would be.

In my freshman year, I struggled with the calculus-based classes, Calc 1,
Chem 1, and Phys 1, as well as I struggled with ego inflation in my CS classes.
I quickly learned that college was not the place to be playing around. I retook
Calc 1 in the spring semester with a different professor and passed.

Upon taking Calc 2, my college career took a turn for the better. I met
Professor Melissa Erdmann. She was the most caring professor I have ever met. I
would go to her office hours every chance I could get to just talk and interact
with her. Those office hours are where I met one of my closest friends to date.
He was recovering from Chemotherapy and was struggling with some topics. I
finally felt heard in my struggles.

My newfound friend and I both took Professor Erdmann's Calc 3, as well as
Phys 2 and Differential Equations together. We worked together to hold each
other accountable through Mines and ensuring we were up to date. During the
semester I took Differential Equations, I also decided to take Linear Algebra,
Operating Systems, Algorithms, Physics 2, and a required creative writing class.

That semester ended up being the most challenging experience of my time at
Mines. The summer prior, I had made another friend in the CS department. He had
an identical class schedule to mine. He was very musically talented, and we
would spend a lot of time together working on our various math and CS classes.
I remember staying up all night working on homework and studying for exams.
It was never-ending, and in the end, I feel like I grew as an engineer and as a
person. Unfortunately, my friend in the CS department ended up dropping out of
Mines after that semester to transfer to a different college.

Finally, my last semester of college came around. Unfortunately, most of the
friends I have made up to this point were in other departments and were Juniors,
just beginning their harder 400-level courses. The CS department at my school
was fairly independent, aside from a few cliques.

I decided to take Compiler Theory, Encryption, and a few other classes. This
semester turned out to be my second-hardest semester at Mines. Encryption was a
longer class than normal, and it was early in the morning after my machine
learning class, which was also long. Digesting all of this new content back to
back with no break challenged my ability to overcome my ADHD and learn new
techniques to focus and take notes better. I also met the second most impactful
professor of my time at Mines, Professor Keith Hellman.

Professor Hellman taught Compiler Theory, which quickly became the class I fell
in love with the most. I was fascinated by every aspect of it, from formal
language theory to parsing algorithms to VM design; I was infatuated. So much
so, I ended up creating my own machine architecture (and am currently working on
porting it to real hardware https://github.com/Breadleaf/tcp-vm), which is a
story for another time. He grew my practical skills as an engineer more than I
could ever give credit for. He taught me old \*NIX philosophy and took his time
to ensure I understood everything my heart desired about CS, not just the scope
of his course. We would engage in hours of discussion after class or in office
hours, where I would pick his brain.

Now to bring it all together. My college career was not easy; it was a constant
battle between managing my ADHD and time. It is a story of constant trial and
error, all of which I could never hope to include in this application. If it
wasn't for Professor Erdmann, I would never have made it over the hurdle and
kept motivated to graduate from Mines. If not for my friend I met in Calc 2
office hours, I would have struggled through my Mathematics classes much harder.
If it wasn't for my CS friend to keep me company and grow my love for music
during the hardest semester, I wouldn't have been as passionate about my craft.
If it wasn't for Professor Hellman supporting my never-ending curiosity and
being flexible about his time, I wouldn't have had the intellectual challenge I
needed to bring all my skills together to truly feel as if I deserved a college
degree. And if it weren't for that stubborn child you read about in the first
paragraph, I wouldn't have been the first graduate from college.
